### Hello there!

I'm glad to welcome you in the code repository of **Sunrayz**, a visual novel engine written in C, that uses Lua as its backend.

At the current moment (July 2026), Sunrayz is in development and isn't fully usable yet. There are many things to implement, things to improve and debug after implemented. Since you have found this repository and are reading this, you're welcome here. Feel free to read the code and make pull requests if you want to change, refactor, or debug something.

However, there is one simple **rule** about contributing to this repository.

### We do not use AI for writing actual code.

Yes, that's how it is. Below lies a detailed explanation of why exactly. If you want to skip it straight to the list of what is and not allowed, it's located here.

### Why?

No, I am not anti-AI in any way, but I have my reasons for this.

Well, first of all, it's **agency of creating**.

Before 2022, all code was written by humans without exception. Neural networks only existed in a nascent state and were unable to generate anything that'd have a sufficient amount of viable common sense. So to code something from scratch, one had to rely on tutorials, on YouTube, on programming forums like StackOverflow, on the rest of the Internet, and, most importantly, on one's own understanding of how code works. Today, though, neural networks exist and can generate what one asks them, including code on most programming languages. And while AI-generated code is often buggy or does something other than its user asked for, it still tends to run and perform correctly more often than not.

Since I started working on Sunrayz in 2021, I enjoy it. Coding it was fun back then, and it is now. I like having an idea of a feature, brainstorming on how it would work, writing an implementation. When my code fails, I like taking a look at it, thinking it through, and debugging it with my own hands. I absolutely love the rapture when I run my code and it works as intended! When one creates something meaningful that works and performs what it's meant for, something one knows they can use for their purposes and rely on, it is always an artwork.

When one asks an AI to write code for them, there is none of the above. It's basically the same as asking someone else to write code instead of writing it oneself. The only difference is that this "someone" is available 24/7, will never refuse to perform what's told, and can be asked as many times as one wants. Essentially, it functions as a tool the effect of which is comparable to asking another person of doing the same thing.

If an AI is asked to write code, then who's having fun coding? Who's creating the software? Who's experiencing the pros and cons of the development? Definitely not the one who asked.

If one uses AI, where is all the fun?

Then comes **maintainability**.

As I have mentioned, AI can write code. But it doesn't keep the understanding of it outside of the given context. It's limited by the maximum context token amount it can handle (which is made from the whole project code passed to it, the previous requests sent to it, and its own responses). That means one can only pass a limited amount of anything to a certain AI. It suffers from *token blurring*: a thing when tokens closer to the beginning and the end of the whole context have more profound effect than tokens closer to the middle, which effectively means the latter can fall out of probability scope. AI models are also taught on code written, either good or bad, by different people, and on code generated by other AI, which is based on either good or bad code written by different people. All of this would inevitably lead to one known thing manifesting in the generated code sooner or later: *bugs*.

Of course, code written by people also has bugs. Finding and fixing them is an integral part of coding as a process. But the one who wrote their code does understand it; they can debug it by delving into it, recreating the intended algorithm in their head, and finding a discrepancy. If someone else's code contains bugs, one still can understand and debug it if they put an effort.

An AI, though? While it is able to write big amounts of code, it'll also inevitably write bugs into it for the reasons explained above. This would be the code only AI understands, a code that contains nobody knows how many bugs. And while people certainly can examine and debug AI code, then there's a question: if they can do this, then why wouldn't they write that code themselves (potentially without those bugs)?

### Rules

What one **can** use AI for:
- Learning how to write code (though beware: AI can hallucinate believable nonsense, so make sure to double check what you've learned from outer sources)
- Looking up code tutorials on the Internet

What one **cannot** use AI for:
- Pasting a snippet of Sunrayz code to AI and asking to explain it
- Asking AI to write code to use in Sunrayz
- Asking AI to supplement Sunrayz code with its own
- Asking AI to write documentation

Fortunately or not, there are no fully reliable ways to check if a code is written by an AI or by a human. And those acceptably reliable ways that do exist would prove annoying and tedious for everyone involved in the project. That's why I put my hope on my contributors' good faith and on them accepting the game rules in favor of us all having fun.

Remember: a coder is not an AI. A coder is someone who can code by themselves. Someone who thinks, builds, and creates their software with their own hands.

### Coding is fun. So, let's code and enjoy what comes!
